---
layout:     post
title:      "Dev Log #02: Structure & Specializations"
date:       2026-01-28
tag:        projectsetup
category:   nondev
author:     Eoin Stansfield
---

👷Work  
  
To form our weekly rhythm we decided to meet Wednesdays and Sundays. 
Using our in person Wednesday sessions as more of a work day. 
For our Sunday block we decided to be online where it would serve as a sync up meeting and talk about what we have all been working on. 
Then we would plan out the week and meet the following Wednesday to get more work done before recapping again.  
  
🏁Finalizations  
  
After our previous meeting of ranking the pitches and deciding on the “Sheep Protector”, we spent time talking about core gameplay. 
Talking about which aspects we wanted to have and in which parts each person would be able to do the work for. 
Ensuring we kept our scope small while gaging each other's abilities to get done certain aspects of the game. 
After game play talks we were able to get our github pages live and post intros and dev logs.  
  
🏷️Roles  
  
In order to split up work and start working on the project in terms of development, we needed 
to know each other's specializations in order to assign tasks properly. By identifying our strengths 
and weaknesses it would allow our overall group efficiency in completing tasks. While we have 
three developers/programmers, our primary specializations included asset implementation, level design, map creation, system 
and mechanical design, and a programmer with general knowledge of a bunch of different aspects of design.  
  
🏃‍♂️The Run Down  
  
We have now created a baseline for how we are going to create the game we want to make. Establishing a 
meeting schedule and roles we created structure and responsibilities for the team. Our next steps are to go in depth in game play, mechanics, and design. 
