---
layout:     post
title:      "Dev Log #01: Foundations"
date:       2026-01-27
tag:        project-setup process
category:   nondev
author:     Eoin Stansfield
---

🛠️Setup  

  
To start we needed to get our initial setup, communication, and organization done before we started brainstorming. 
First we setup our Github repo inviting all group members and assigning access. Then we setup our project board and made sure everyone understood how to use it.
A coding standard documentation was then setup to keep files organized. We then finished up our team document filling in team various information about ourselves availability and overall expectations for the project.  

🧠💡Brainstorming  

Each of us before the meeting had thought of different game ideas and then had pitched them to the group. We then ranked them and sought out our best option based on the group consensus.
While ranking games we talked about what kind of game we did not want to develop. This included FPS, heavy puzzle, social role play, rogue-like games. 
After discussing game pitches we locked in a pitch to develop and discussed how we were going to work on the high concept and game proposal based off of this pitch.  

📝Discussion  

During our meeting discussion is was brought about that we would like to create these game dev logs like this one. As well as planning out our meeting times and seeing when everyone is available to get work done. 
With various schedules it was difficult to find a time as a group but we made it work. We had also discussed how much does everyone want to be involved in the overall design of the game. Discussing how we can make each others inputs feel valued as well,
trying to keep the overall team goals in mind.  

🏃‍♂️The Run Down  

After building a foundation for organization and setting up our team progress for success, we locked in a game pitch. Then we turned our focus to defining our goals and milestones and thought about ideas for our next assignments. 
